# Advance-Library-Management-System
Advance and Secure Library Management System is based on a concept of recording owned books, issued books, returned books, students who have borrowed and many more. Before stepping into the main system, a user has to pass through a login system to get access, there are three options, Student and Librarian Login and for creating a student Login. To get access to the Librarian’s account, a password should be provided and after the correct password is entered, an OTP is generated and sent on the Librarian’s email-Id. Librarian Account login is only successful after correct OTP is entered. To Get access to a Student account, correct username and password needs to be entered. After the student passes the login process, an Alert Mail is sent on Student’s registered Email Id that will notify the student whether someone is misusing his/her account. For creating a New student Account, Student needs to enter his full name, user name, email id and mobile number. Then student needs to enter a password with an uppercase, lowercase and a digit and also, password length must be between 8 and 25. And for having a secured password, student is provided with a unique randomly generated password that student can use as a password. After these conditions are passed, a randomly generated CAPTCHA is displayed that needs to be entered. After the correct CAPTCHA is entered, an OTP is sent to the Librarian’s account. The student needs to ask the librarian for the OTP. Librarian can verify the details that the student had entered to prevent entering of wrong information before giving the OTP. Once the OTP is entered, System displays the message that the student account is successfully created. Also, an Auto-generated Welcoming mail is sent on Student’s Email Id that his/her account is successfully created. The student Account will have the Access to see his account details, see all books, search book by serial Number, Name and Author name. Other than these, User can Issue books and return books by himself/herself without disturbing/waiting for the Librarian to do that. Librarian account will be having Access to See all books, add books, modify books, delete books, see student account details and open the OTP file which will contain the OTP that the student will need to complete his/her account registration.
